Add MongoAlternative Docs (#327)
tembo-io/website: docusaurus/docs/tembo-stacks/mongo-alternative.md

---
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Tembo MongoAlternative

The Tembo MongoAlternative Stack is designed to bring document-oriented database capabilities to Postgres.

> Leveraging the power of FerretDB, Tembo users can both migrate from MongoDB to Postgres, as well as interact with their data in a remarkably familiar to them!

Reviewer: Focus on the compatibility with mongo protocol, rather than bringing document-orients capabilities. Postgres has document-oriented capabilities regardless of mongos existence. This allows users to have storage compatible with Mongo, without users having to make any changes to their application.

Author: Updated.

## Apps & Extensions

- [FerretDB](https://docs.ferretdb.io/) - `FerretDB` is an open-source proxy build on Postgres that translates MongoDB wire protocol queries to SQL.
- Extensions from [Trunk](https://pgt.dev/) can be installed on-demand.

## Getting started

### Download mongosh (MongoDB Shell)

Similar to `psql`, `mongosh` is a means to connect and interact with your Tembo instance.

> The difference, however, is that `mongosh` is specific to MongoDB-like environments, such as the one that FerretDB provides.

Reviewer: Just say that mongosh is used to test queries and interact with the data in your mongo database and is compatible with ferretdb. It is the client used to communicate with the database.

Author: Done, thank you.

- For macOS, you can run the following brew command: `brew install mongosh`
- For Windows and Linux, please refer to the steps found within the [mongosh official documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/mongodb-shell/install/)

### Setup

#### Connect via mongosh

Once you've established a Tembo MongoAlternative Stack instance, you will need to download a root SSL certificate (this can be found just above the connection string on the right-hand side).
You can then copy the connection string from the UI and execute it within the terminal having navigated to the directory containing the freshly-downloaded SSL certificate.

> As an alternative to copying from the UI, you can fill in and run the following mongosh command:

Author: No, we have not gotten to that yet.

```bash
mongosh "mongodb://postgres:<your-password>@<your-host>:27018/ferretdb?authMechanism=PLAIN&tls=true&tlsCaFile=$(pwd)/ca.crt"
```

The tlsCaFile=$(pwd)/ca.crt in your MongoDB connection string specifies the SSL certificate file's location using the current directory ($(pwd)).
To use a different directory for your SSL certificate, replace $(pwd) with the full path to the certificate, like tlsCaFile=/your/certificate/path/ca.crt.

#### Connect via psql

> Like the other stacks, you have access to `psql` and can connect to Postgres by copying the `psql` connection string from the UI or fill in and run the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like other postgres instances you can use `psql` to connect to Postgres by copying the `psql` connection string from the UI or fill in and run the following:
```

```bash
psql 'postgresql://postgres:<your-password>@<your-host>:5432/postgres'
```

> 

Reviewer: what are we asking the user to do via psql? its not clear by reading this guide.

Author: Deleted psql section.

### Load sample data

Once connected, loading and working with data is very straightforward.
Here we've provided a sample dataset showing satellites belonging to NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration).
Note that the data is for demonstrative purposes and might not be accurate.

```
db.satellites.insertMany([
    { name: "NOAA-15", type: "NOAA", launch_date: "1998-05-13", description: "description1." },
    { name: "NOAA-18", type: "NOAA", launch_date: "2005-05-20", description: "description2." },
    { name: "NOAA-19", type: "NOAA", launch_date: "2009-02-06", description: "description3." },
    { name: "GOES-16", type: "GOES", launch_date: "2016-11-19", description: "description4." },
    { name: "GOES-17", type: "GOES", launch_date: "2018-03-01", description: "description5." },
    { name: "GOES-18", type: "GOES", launch_date: "2022-03-01", description: "description6." }
]);

> db.orbit_data.insertMany([

Reviewer: is the user supposed to enter these into `psql` or into `mongosh`? It's not clear, and the last instruction we gave them was to connect with `psql`

Author: mongosh, I've updated accordingly.
